# SciEdu-circuit-simulation-in-python

The aim of the SciEdu project is to teach the science of electric signals and signal processing to secondary school students. We are using Python’s pyqtgraph library to create nodes that simulate different signals, such as a signal generator and filters as also devices for viewing signals such as an oscilloscope. The project requires an understanding of the nodes currently available in open source (available by downloading pyqtgraph http://www.pyqtgraph.org/ and running ‘examples’) in order to build new ones.

How to use this project: You will need to install Python 2.7.x Also download the following python libraries:
⦁	numpy
⦁	scipy
⦁	PyQt4  
⦁	pyqtgaph
⦁ pyserial-2.7.win32.exe

⦁	 Download and install the code files in the same folder.
 Run the ‘SciEdu’ file from the project.

⦁	In the interactive screen that opens, hover on the dark band on the central, right side of the display and right click to choose from the  available nodes. 

My contribution: So far, I have independently developed a few nodes: PRBS Node, Noise Node and DigiAdder Node. I have also contributed to the other nodes in the set of digital nodes, namely Character to Binary Node, Parity Node and Check Parity Node.


⦁	Example: Simulating the PRBS (pseudo random binary sequence) node:
Connect the PRBS node and the Oscilloscope node to see the PRBS node's output.

Logic behind the node for generating a PRBS sequence: 

A PRBS bit stream can be generated by using a linear feedback shift register (LFSR). Initially, the register is seeded with ‘1111’. A 4-bit frequency shift register rotates through 15 states that is all the 16 combinations possible for 4 bits, except the state ‘0000’, which is a forbidden state.

NOTE: A flowchart of the process for generating a PRBS sequence node is uploaded as an image file on this repository.
